#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with python 3.9
# To update, run:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.txt
#
atpublic==2.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   flufl.lock
attrs==21.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   niworkflows
backcall==0.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
bids-validator==1.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   pybids
calamities==0.0.14
    # via -r requirements.txt
certifi==2021.5.30
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   requests
chardet==4.0.0
    # via -r requirements.txt
charset-normalizer==2.0.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   requests
ci-info==0.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   etelemetry
click==8.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   niflow-nipype1-workflows
    #   nipype
    #   pybids
cycler==0.10.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   matplotlib
cython==0.29.24
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nitime
decorator==4.4.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
    #   networkx
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   odfpy
dipy==1.4.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   mriqc
docopt==0.6.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   num2words
et-xmlfile==1.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   openpyxl
etelemetry==0.2.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nipype
fasteners==0.16.3
    # via -r requirements.txt
filelock==3.0.12
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nipype
flufl.lock==5.1
    # via -r requirements.txt
git+https://github.com/hippocampusgirl/fmriprep.git@20.2.3+halfpipe.1
    # via -r requirements.txt
future==0.18.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   niflow-nipype1-workflows
gmpy2==2.0.8
    # via -r requirements.txt
h5py==3.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   dipy
    #   nitransforms
idna==3.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   requests
imageio==2.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   scikit-image
indexed-gzip==1.6.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   smriprep
inflect==5.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   calamities
inflection==0.5.1
    # via -r requirements.txt
ipython==7.25.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   line-profiler
ipython-genutils==0.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   traitlets
isodate==0.6.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   rdflib
jedi==0.18.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
jinja2==3.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   mriqc
    #   niworkflows
joblib==1.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nilearn
    #   scikit-learn
kiwisolver==1.3.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   matplotlib
line-profiler==3.3.0
    # via -r requirements.txt
lockfile==0.12.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   smriprep
lxml==4.6.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   prov
    #   svgutils
markupsafe==2.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   jinja2
marshmallow==3.13.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   marshmallow-oneofschema
marshmallow-oneofschema==3.0.1
    # via -r requirements.txt
matplotlib==3.4.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   mriqc
    #   nitime
    #   niworkflows
    #   scikit-image
    #   seaborn
    #   smriprep
    #   tedana
matplotlib-inline==0.1.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
more-itertools==8.8.0
    # via -r requirements.txt
mpmath==1.2.1
    # via -r requirements.txt
git+https://github.com/poldracklab/mriqc@0.15.3
    # via -r requirements.txt
networkx==2.5.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   nipype
    #   nitime
    #   prov
    #   scikit-image
nibabel==3.2.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   dipy
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
    #   nilearn
    #   nipype
    #   nitime
    #   nitransforms
    #   niworkflows
    #   pybids
    #   sdcflows
    #   smriprep
    #   tedana
niflow-nipype1-workflows==0.0.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   sdcflows
nilearn==0.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
    #   niworkflows
    #   tedana
nipype==1.6.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
    #   niflow-nipype1-workflows
    #   niworkflows
    #   sdcflows
    #   smriprep
git+https://github.com/nipy/nitime.git@rel/0.8.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
nitransforms==20.0.0rc5
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   niworkflows
git+https://github.com/hippocampusgirl/niworkflows.git@1.3.4+halfpipe.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
    #   sdcflows
    #   smriprep
num2words==0.5.10
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   pybids
numpy==1.21.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   calamities
    #   fmriprep
    #   h5py
    #   imageio
    #   matplotlib
    #   mriqc
    #   nibabel
    #   nilearn
    #   nipype
    #   nitime
    #   nitransforms
    #   niworkflows
    #   pandas
    #   patsy
    #   pybids
    #   pywavelets
    #   scikit-image
    #   scikit-learn
    #   scipy
    #   sdcflows
    #   seaborn
    #   smriprep
    #   statsmodels
    #   tedana
    #   tifffile
odfpy==1.4.1
    # via -r requirements.txt
openpyxl==3.0.7
    # via -r requirements.txt
packaging==21.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nibabel
    #   nipype
    #   niworkflows
    #   pint
    #   smriprep
pandas==1.3.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
    #   nilearn
    #   niworkflows
    #   pybids
    #   seaborn
    #   statsmodels
    #   tedana
parso==0.8.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   jedi
git+https://github.com/pydata/patsy.git
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   pybids
    #   statsmodels
pexpect==4.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
pickleshare==0.7.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
pillow==8.3.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   imageio
    #   matplotlib
    #   scikit-image
pint==0.17
    # via -r requirements.txt
prompt-toolkit==3.0.19
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
prov==2.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nipype
psutil==5.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   flufl.lock
    #   fmriprep
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   pexpect
pybids==0.13.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
    #   niworkflows
    #   sdcflows
    #   smriprep
    #   templateflow
pydot==1.4.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nipype
pygments==2.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
pympler==0.9
    # via -r requirements.txt
pyparsing==2.4.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   matplotlib
    #   packaging
    #   pydot
    #   rdflib
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   matplotlib
    #   nipype
    #   pandas
    #   prov
pytz==2021.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   pandas
pywavelets==1.1.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   scikit-image
pyyaml==5.4.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
    #   niworkflows
    #   smriprep
rdflib==6.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nipype
    #   prov
requests==2.26.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   etelemetry
    #   fmriprep
    #   nilearn
    #   templateflow
scikit-image==0.17.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   niworkflows
scikit-learn==0.24.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   mriqc
    #   nilearn
    #   niworkflows
    #   tedana
scipy==1.7.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   dipy
    #   mriqc
    #   nilearn
    #   nipype
    #   nitime
    #   nitransforms
    #   niworkflows
    #   pybids
    #   scikit-image
    #   scikit-learn
    #   seaborn
    #   statsmodels
    #   tedana
sdcflows==1.3.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
seaborn==0.11.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   mriqc
    #   niworkflows
simplejson==3.17.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nipype
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   cycler
    #   fasteners
    #   isodate
    #   patsy
    #   python-dateutil
smriprep==0.7.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
sqlalchemy==1.3.24
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   pybids
stackprinter==0.2.5
    # via -r requirements.txt
statsmodels==0.12.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   mriqc
svgutils==0.3.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   mriqc
    #   niworkflows
tabulate==0.8.9
    # via -r requirements.txt
tedana==0.0.9a1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
templateflow==0.7.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
    #   niworkflows
    #   sdcflows
    #   smriprep
threadpoolctl==2.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   scikit-learn
    #   tedana
tifffile==2021.7.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   scikit-image
toml==0.10.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   fmriprep
    #   mriqc
tqdm==4.61.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   dipy
    #   templateflow
traitlets==5.0.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   ipython
    #   matplotlib-inline
traits==6.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   nipype
transforms3d==0.3.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   niworkflows
typing-extensions==3.10.0.0
    # via -r requirements.txt
urllib3==1.26.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   requests
wcwidth==0.2.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   prompt-toolkit
xlrd==2.0.1
    # via -r requirements.txt
xlsxwriter==1.4.4
    # via -r requirements.txt
xvfbwrapper==0.2.9
    # via
    #   -r requirements.txt
    #   mriqc

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
